---
layout: page
width: xsmall
title: Disclaimer
permalink: /disclaimer/
---

### As operators of this site, we take the protection of your personal information very seriously. We treat your personal information as confidential and will handle it in accordance with data protection legislation as well as with the terms of this statement.

---

### Personal Information

It is in principal possible to use our website without providing any personal information. To the extent that it is possible, the provision of personal information (e.g. name, address, email address) to our site will remain voluntary. Such information will not be disclosed to third parties without your express consent.
Please note that there can sometimes be security issues when information is transmitted over the internet (e.g. via email). It is therefore not possible to guarantee water-tight protection for data from access by third parties.

### Cookies

This site uses cookies. Cookies do not cause any damage to your computer and do not contain viruses. Cookies help us to provide you with a safer, more user-friendly and effective service. Cookies are small text files that are downloaded to your computer and saved in your browser.

Most of the cookies we use are so-called “session cookies”, which are automatically deleted at the end of your visit. Other cookies will remain on your device until you delete them. These cookies enable us to recognise your browser the next time you visit us.
It is open to you to adjust your browser settings to notify you when cookies are installed and to require your agreement to the installation of cookies on a case-by-case basis, to refuse cookies in specific cases or in general, and to automatically delete cookies when you close your browser. Please note that deactivating cookies may lead to some loss of functionality.

### Google Analytics Disclaimer

This website uses Google Analytics, a web analytics service provided by Google, Inc. (“Google”). Google Analytics uses “cookies”, which are text files placed on your computer to help the website analyse how visitors use the site. The information generated by the cookie about your use of the website (including your IP address) will be transmitted to and stored by Google on servers in the United States . Google will use this information for the purpose of evaluating your use of the website, compiling reports on website activity for website operators and providing other services relating to website activity and internet usage. Google may also transfer this information to third parties where required to do so by law, or where such third parties process the information on Google’s behalf. Google will not associate your IP address with any other data held by Google. You may refuse the use of cookies by selecting the appropriate settings on your browser, however please note that if you do this you may not be able to use the full functionality of this website. By using this website, you consent to the processing of data about you by Google in the manner and for the purposes set out above. You can prevent Google’s collection and use of data (cookies and IP address) by downloading and installing the browser plug-in available under tools.google.com/dlpage/gaoptout. Please note that this website initializes Google Analytics with the setting anonymizeIp This guarantees anonymized data collection by masking the last part of your IP address.Further information concerning the terms and conditions of use and data privacy can be found at www.google.com/analytics/terms/gb.html or at www.google.com/intl/en_uk/analytics/privacyoverview.html

### Server log files

The operator of this site automatically collects and stores information in so-called server log files, which are transmitted to us automatically by your browser. These are:

Browser type/ browser Version
Operating system
Referrer URL
Host name of accessing computer
Time of request to server

This information cannot be linked to specific individuals and will not be combined with information from any other data sources. We reserve the right to check information at a later stage should we have concrete evidence that it is being used unlawfully.

### Contact form

If you send us an enquiry using our contact form, Twitter DM, email, or by any other means, we will store your enquiry including any contact details that you have provided for the purpose of dealing with your enquiry and any subsequent questions. We will not pass on such data without your agreement.

### Disclaimer

This website is solely for informational purposes and does not represent a contract. The real estate developer reserves the right to change or substitute any or all of the materials, elements, and services with an appropriate equivalent. All information provided, descriptions of the building and its facilities, as well as any sales plans are only meant to be representative in nature and are therefore not yet binding, because technical, economic, or legal factors and/or governmental regulations and guidelines in particular may require changes or alterations.

Any liabilities or warranties are thus excluded on the part of any contractual party named on this website and/or any employees or bodies thereof. No liability or warranty will be assumed related to the future fulfillment or non-fulfillment of specific occurrences, expectations, assumptions, etc. OwnYou Ltd is not required to provide updates, supplements, additions, or further information regarding future changes related on this website.

### Errors and Omissions

OwnYou Ltd is not responsible for any errors or omissions, or for the results obtained from the use of this information. All information in this site is provided "as is", with no guarantee of completeness, accuracy, timeliness or of the results obtained from the use of this information, and without warranty of any kind, express or implied, including, but not limited to warranties of performance, merchantability and fitness for a particular purpose. In no event will OwnYou ltd, its related partnerships or corporations, or the partners, agents or employees thereof be liable to you or anyone else for any decision made or action taken in reliance on the information in the Site or for any consequential, special, or similar damager, even it advised of the possibility of such damages.

### GitHub Pages

This site is hosted by GitHub Pages.
Please visit GitHub's [Privacy Policy](https://docs.github.com/en/site-policy/privacy-policies/github-privacy-statement) pages for GitHub privacy statement, and other disclaimers and disclosures.
